OIDC client integration for GraphQL clients (#36375)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-openid-connect-client-reference.adoc

The `quarkus-oidc-token-propagation-reactive` extension (as opposed to the non-reactive `quarkus-oidc-token-propagation` extension) does not currently support the exchanging or resigning the tokens before the propagation.
However, these features may be added in the future.

[[oidc-client-graphql-client]]
== GraphQL client integration

The `quarkus-oidc-client-graphql` extension provides a way to integrate an

> OIDC client into GraphQL clients. This works similarly as with REST clients.

Reviewer: Please make `GraphQL` or `GrapghQL client` an `xref:` link to the `GraphQL` guide and in reference back to this section from that guide's `References` section for GrapghQL users be aware of this option

Author: Done :)

When this extension is present, any configured (that means NOT created
programmatically via the builder, but via configuration properties) GraphQL

> client will attempt to use the OIDC client to obtain the value of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client will attempt to use the OIDC client to obtain an access token and set it 
```

> `Authorization` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as an `Authorization` header value. OIDC client will also refresh expired access tokens.
```

> To configure which OIDC client should be used by GraphQL clients, use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure which OIDC client should be used by GraphQL client, select one of the configured OIDC clients with the `quarkus.oidc-client-graphql.client-name` property, for example:
```

----

> quarkus.oidc-client-graphql.client-name=OIDC_CLIENT_NAME

Reviewer: Please copy some named OIDC client configuration here and use that client name instead of `OIDC_CLIENT_NAME`

Author: Done, added a small OIDC client snippet

> quarkus.oidc-client-graphql.client-name=OIDC_CLIENT_NAME

Reviewer: How will it work if no named, default OIDC client is configured only ? FYI, the default client name is `DEFAULT` so if it also has to be referred to by name then it should be mentioned in a `NOTE`

Author: Added a note that if undefined, it will attempt to use the default OIDC client

----

For typesafe GraphQL clients, you can override this on a per-client basis by annotating

> the `GraphQLClientApi` interface with `@OidcClientFilter("OIDC_CLIENT_NAME")`.

Reviewer: Please give a Java example here, copy and paste some of OidcClientFilter examples and update accordingly

Author: Added a simple snippet with a `GraphQLClient` interface

To be able to use this with a programmatically created GraphQL client, both
builders (`VertxDynamicGraphQLClientBuilder` and
`VertxTypesafeGraphQLClientBuilder`) contain a method `dynamicHeader(String,
Uni<String>`) that allows you to plug in a header that might change for
every request. To plug an OIDC client into it, use

> ```

Reviewer: I believe it should be wrapped in `[source,java]`

However, these features may be added in the future.

[[oidc-client-graphql-client]]
== GraphQL client integration

The `quarkus-oidc-client-graphql` extension provides a way to integrate an
OIDC client into xref:smallrye-graphql-client.adoc[GraphQL clients]. This
works similarly as with REST clients. When this extension is present, any
configured (that means NOT created programmatically via the builder, but via
configuration properties) GraphQL client will attempt to use the OIDC client
to obtain an access token and set it as an `Authorization` header value.
OIDC client will also refresh expired access tokens.

To configure which OIDC client should be used by GraphQL client, select one of the configured OIDC clients with the `quarkus.oidc-client-graphql.client-name` property, for example:

----
quarkus.oidc-client-graphql.client-name=oidc-client-for-graphql

# example declaration of the OIDC client itself
quarkus.oidc-client.oidc-client-for-graphql.auth-server-url=http://example.com/realms/quarkus

> quarkus.oidc-client.annotation.grant-options.password.username=${username}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quarkus.oidc-client.oidc-client-for-graphql.grant-options.password.username=${username}
```

> quarkus.oidc-client.annotation.grant-options.password.username=${username}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quarkus.oidc-client.oidc-client-for-graphql.grant-options.password.username=${username}
```

Reviewer: Please make this OIDC client config complete, (client id and secret properties for this test client, setting grant type to password), users sometimes copy and paste examples and then they might wonder why it does not work for the password (I've definitely had such queries before, quite likely due to incompleted fragments in this guide :-) )

Author: Done, please check

Reviewer: Thanks @jmartisk
